!!Preventing Monkey Butt
{{style small i:Tour Tip
{{smaller:--Motorcycle Consumer News}}}}

{{i:by Bill Shaw}}

Few things are as distressing for a long distance rider than developing a painful posterior. Euphemistically referred to as "monkey butt," it's a term used by riders to describe the soreness, irritation, discomfort and a bright red color that can occur after spending many hours in the saddle.

According to the US. Navy's Surgeon General, Vice Admiral Don Arthur, who also happens to be an accomplished long distance rider, the skin becomes irritated due to a constant application of moisture and heat. And when skin isn't allowed to dry, pores get waterlogged and become clogged. What results is a rash that is uncomfortable and irritating at best, and can completely ruin a trip at worst.

Needless to say, it's best to prevent the monkey butt before it happens, as opposed to treating it. Here are sever tips we found that help thwart the onset of this malady: Gradually build up your endurance by progressively spending more hours in the saddle before a long trip. Also, wear the same gear during these "training rides" that you plan on wearing on your trip.

Apply powder to those areas prone to chafing, that is, thighs and bottom. The powder helps reduce friction and keep the skin dry. There are a number of products on the market like traditional baby powder, Gold Bond Medicated Powder and Anti Monkey Butt Powder and they all work equally as well.

Wear undergarments designed to wick perspiration away from the skin. Many of these products are either made from microfiber like those manufactured by Under Armour, or are made from nylon spandex or Lycra like those found in bicycling shorts.

Buy a beaded seat like those sold by BeadRider; the benefits far outweigh the disadvantages. We know they appear uncomfortable, but after 500 miles, you'll be a believer. In addition to allowing air to circulate in and around your nether regions, beaded seats allow for the dispersion of pressure points over a larger area.
