!!New Ride
{{style small i:Street Strategy
{{smaller:--Motorcycle Consumer News}}}}

{{i:by Ken Codon}}

You picked up your new highperformance motorcycle a few days ago, but haven't had a chance to take it out until today. The new bike feels very different from your old cruiser-style motorcycle with the forward riding position and the sharp handling. The cruiser required a fair amount of muscle to get it turned and stopped, whereas the new bike maneuvers instantaneously and the brakes are stronger than you though possible.

You decide to include a visit to the local high school parking lot into today's schedule to practice turning and braking with the new bike. However, instead of heading directly to the school, you decide to take the longer route that takes you along your favorite twist road.

The tight curves revel just how different your new bike is. It steers so easily that you find yourself coming too close to the inside of several turns. One time you turned in so quickly that you apexed too early, causing you to drift wide at the exit. Thankfully, the motorcycle gave you enough confidence to increase your lean angle and stay in your lane. That's when you realize that you should slow down and get to the parking lot ASAP to get acclimated to this new machine.

In the neighborhood near the high school a car suddenly backs out of a driveway. You grab a handful of brake as you would on your cruiser, but this causes the sportbike to fishtail out of control. You manage to stay on two wheels while avoiding the car, but you are quite shaken by how your new bike reacted to hard braking.

You finally make it to the parking lot. After several revolutions around an imaginary circle you become more comfortable with the sportbike's turning characteristics. You're amazed at the amount of lean that is possible compared to your old bike.

Even more significant is what you learn when you practice emergency braking. The same amount of brake pressure required to slow the big cruiser is too much for the sportbike. You also recognize that the short wheelbase contributes to the rear wheel becoming elevated under hard braking. After several practice runs, you find the perfect balance of front and rear brake pressure to stop the bike quickly and safely.
